[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Let's get talking
about JavaScript objects.
Many of you, I'm sure are familiar
with object oriented programming.
I'm sure many of you are not.
So we're just going to
assume that you are not.
So objects in JavaScript are like
a collection of properties.
That sounds kind of really technical and
computer science.
It's actually not very technical.
So we'll look at it here in just a sec.
But they can contain other numbers,
other objects,
other strings, functions,
anything for like that.
And they're useful for
grouping like properties together.
So let's take a look at this car, right?
We have this var car,
which is an object, right?
You can kind of differentiate
an object from anything else
by the curly braces, right?
So here the car has a make,
a model, an acceleration and then
I gave it a function called accelerate,
which would just make it go even faster.
It would increase that
acceleration by ten.
We can talk about this here,
literally in the next slide so
if this doesn't make sense to you we're
about to talk about it so it's good.
So it's kind of a simple pattern right?
But just imagine trying if you were
creating cars in your JavaScript right?
That you have to keep track
of 30 different cars and
you have to keep the track of make one,
make two, makes three as opposed you
could just keep track of car1, car2 and
then they would each have like
their own set of properties.
It's a really powerful practice because
then you can start assuming things about
the objects, right?
We'll see that here in just a second.
And I think Nina actually touched on
it yesterday as well that if you have
a person and a person has an name and
a age, right?
You can always assume that that
person has that name and age.
Yeah, so
let's talk a little bit about this.
So I'm sure all of you have this
this sign around right like
no smoking in this building or
no parking next to this building, right?
So what does this mean in this
particular context, right?
It means the building that it's next to.
It makes sense next to a building.
But what happens if I take that
no smoking in this building and
just stick it in the middle of a field?
Just doesn't make any sense, right.
What is this, what is this building.
So this kind of contextual awareness of
the word this applies also in programming.
The word this refers to whatever I'm
next to, whatever I'm in, right?
So hopefully that makes
sense on a high level,
that's like concretely what that means.
Yeah, this can be complicated particularly
in JavaScript, so just be careful with it.
That's all I'm gonna say about that.
So, let's go ahead and open this.
>> Brian Holt: Maybe it will open.
There we go.
>> Brian Holt: So let's make this a little
bit bigger here since you don't really
need to see that.
So, here.
>> Speaker 2: Where was that?
What slide was that on?
>> Brian Holt: That is on slide one
of them, 124.
>> Speaker 2: Thank you.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, you're welcome.
So we have a favorite.
And then we also have this
person here that has a favorite.
Okay, so let's first talk about this one.
If our person has a favorite car and
it's a Nissan Leaf, and
we have this function called get fave.
Right, this says return this dot favorite.
So in the context of this object,
get fave is the object.
Right, I think that kind of makes sense,
right?
This refers to essentially a person,
Cuz it's being called within
the context of the person,
it's kind of like sticking the no smoking
sign in this building on your object.
It makes sense that this object
is what this refers to okay?
So we call it document.right
person.getFave okay and
we're calling that
function off the object.
Right here which is what these
parenthesis means, right.
Like it means that I'm
calling that function.
And so it's calling this function,
it's returning this.favorite, okay.
And this.favorite in this particular
case refers to this.favorite right here,
the Nissan Leaf, okay.
Then I'm writing a new line just so,
you know it's easier to read right there,
okay?
This is kind of a, some black magic,
so bear with me for a second.
Right here I'm saying func
equals person.getFave without
the parenthesis, okay?
What does that mean?
It means I'm actually not
calling the function,
I'm just ripping the function
out of the object, right?
All right,
actually to be more succinct about it,
I'm creating another reference to it.
So both of these still exist, right?
So this getFave exists and
this func exists, but
they essentially refer to the same thing.
I mean it's kind of like,
if I say var x equals five, and
I say var y equals x, right?
What is y right now?
It's five, and what is x?
Also five, okay?
Same idea here,
we're just doing it with a function.
You can treat functions like variables in
JavaScript, which is kind of mind blowing,
but it's also extremely powerful.
And if you want to explain why it's
the most powerful pattern in the world,
there's a front end masters course
called Hard Core functional Programming,
that's just mind blowing.
My mind melted when I watched it.
It was awesome.
>> Speaker 3: Launching next month.
>> Brian Holt: Launching next month.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so
that is exactly what's happening here.
I've now ripped func out so now func
right here refers to this getFave, okay?
So that thus far should make sense, but
now I'm running document.write,
and I'm calling Func.
So essentially now what
I've done is I've ripped
the no smoking in this building
sign off the building and
then I threw it in the middle of
the field to see what happens, right.
So now I'm doing document.write func.
It's no longer in the context of
this person, it's like a lost puppy.
[LAUGH] So what does it do?
There is a global object
in JavaScript right,
in the case of the browser which
is most of what we deal with.
It's the window,
like the window the entire browser object.
So I have up here var favorite,
which is not in any particular context,
it has no scope to it,
it's just in the global object.
So when I call document.write func,
what's it actually looking for?
It's looking for this favorite up here,
right because it's now a no
smoking this building sign and
that's on the entire world and this
favorite is the only one that i can see.
Are we okay with that,
how do we feel about that?
Right, we got Nissan Leaf right here and
we have Tesla Model S right here.
That's the explanation,
that's what context is.
This is mostly to, this isn't actually
a very useful pattern by the way,
this is purely like an academic exercise.
You don't actually wanna rip functions out
and then typically you wanna know exactly
what this refers to and
you don't want this to be changing.
So, yeah, it's powerful, it's cool,
it's a little confusing.
>> Speaker 2: So,
it's calling both models as a favorite.
>> Brian Holt: Mm-hm, so,
I'm calling the function twice.
Right here, person.get fav.
That's, I'm calling it within
this context of the person,
therefore it's returning Nissan Leaf.
I'm then calling it again in
the context of the global object.
And that is referring to
this favorite up here.
That's why it says Nissan Leaf first,
which is this one.
Right, and then it says Tesla Model S
down after calling this one,
which refers to this one.
>> Brian Holt: Now this is actually
quite difficult JavaScript.
There's actually many front end
developers that won't grasp this.
I will tell you that because it's one of
our interview questions at Reddit, and
a lot of people miss it.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: So, this is really cool.
I think it's really cool
to learn it very early on
because once you kinda grasp this,
kind of the sky's the limit.
There's really cool stuff
you can do with ConTEXT.